feat: add `blas/base/ndarray/dsyr2` (#12848)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/base/ndarray/dsyr2/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2026 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# dsyr2

> Performs the symmetric rank 2 operation `A = alpha*x*y^T + alpha*y*x^T + A`.

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var dsyr2 = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/ndarray/dsyr2' );
```

#### dsyr2( arrays )

> Performs the symmetric rank 2 operation `A = alpha*x*y^T + alpha*y*x^T + A`, where `alpha` is a scalar, `x` and `y` are one-dimensional ndarrays, and `A` is an `N` by `N` symmetric matrix.

Author: ```suggestion
Performs the symmetric rank 2 operation `A = alpha*x*y^T + alpha*y*x^T + A`, where `alpha` is a scalar, `x` and `y` are one-dimensional ndarrays, and `A` is an `N` by `N` symmetric matrix.

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->
```

```javascript

> /* eslint-disable max-len */

Author: ```suggestion
```

var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );

var A = new Float64Matrix( [ [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 ], [ 2.0, 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 2.0, 1.0 ] ] );
var x = new Float64Vector( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Vector( [ 2.0, 1.0, 3.0 ] );

var uplo = scalar2ndarray( resolveEnum( 'upper' ), {
    'dtype': 'int8'
});
var alpha = scalar2ndarray( 2.0, {
    'dtype': 'float64'
});

var z = dsyr2( [ x, y, A, uplo, alpha ] );
// returns <ndarray>[ [ 9.0, 12.0, 21.0 ], [ 2.0, 9.0, 20.0 ], [ 3.0, 2.0, 37.0 ] ]

var bool = ( z === A );
// returns true
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **arrays**: array-like object containing the following ndarrays:

    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray corresponding to `x`.
    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray corresponding to `y`.
    -   a two-dimensional input/output ndarray corresponding to `A`.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying whether `A` should be referenced as an upper or lower triangular matrix.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing a scalar constant corresponding to `alpha`.

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

> ## Examples

Author: ```suggestion
## Examples

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->
```

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript

> /* eslint-disable max-len */

Author: ```suggestion
```

```javascript

> var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/discrete-uniform' );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/discrete-uniform' );
var zeros = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/zeros' );
```

var resolveEnum = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/matrix-triangle-resolve-enum' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var dsyr2 = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/ndarray/dsyr2' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var x = discreteUniform( [ 3 ], 0, 10, opts );
var y = discreteUniform( [ 3 ], 0, 10, opts );

> var A = discreteUniform( [ 3, 3 ], 0, 10, opts );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var A = zeros( [ 3, 3 ], opts );
```

> var A = new Float64Matrix( discreteUniform( 9, 0, 10, opts ).buffer, 0, [ 3, 3 ] );

Author: ```suggestion
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/discrete-uniform' );
var resolveEnum = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/matrix-triangle-resolve-enum' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var dsyr2 = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/ndarray/dsyr2' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var x = discreteUniform( [ 3 ], 0, 10, opts );
var y = discreteUniform( [ 3 ], 0, 10, opts );
var A = discreteUniform( [ 3, 3 ], 0, 10, opts );
```

<!-- eslint-disable max-len -->

```javascript
var Float64Matrix = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/matrix/float64' );
var Float64Vector = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/vector/float64' );
var resolveEnum = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/matrix-triangle-resolve-enum' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );

var A = new Float64Matrix( [ [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 ], [ 2.0, 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 2.0, 1.0 ] ] );
var x = new Float64Vector( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Vector( [ 2.0, 1.0, 3.0 ] );

var uplo = scalar2ndarray( resolveEnum( 'upper' ), {
    'dtype': 'int32'
});
var alpha = scalar2ndarray( 2.0, {
    'dtype': 'float64'
});

var z = dsyr2( [ x, y, A, uplo, alpha ] );
// returns <ndarray>[ [ 9.0, 12.0, 21.0 ], [ 2.0, 9.0, 20.0 ], [ 3.0, 2.0, 37.0 ] ]

var bool = ( z === A );
// returns true
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **arrays**: array-like object containing the following ndarrays:

    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray corresponding to `x`.
    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray corresponding to `y`.
    -   a two-dimensional input/output ndarray corresponding to `A`.

>     -   a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying whether `A` should be referenced as an upper or lower triangular matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying whether the upper or lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix `A` should be referenced.
```
